# National-Cardiovascular-Disease-Surveillance-Data-Analysis-using-IBM-Watson-Analytics
Cardiovascular disease is also known as heart disease. Cardiovascular disease is heart conditions that include diseased vessels, structural problems, and blood clots. One in four deaths in the United States is because of heart disease and about 610,000 people die of heart disease every-year. (Services, 2017) National Vital Statistics System (NVSS) has collected cardiovascular disease related information and published it as a dataset. Dataset contains information for all the 50 states in United States and this information is categorized into 8 different indicators such as Rate of major cardiovascular disease mortality among US adults (18+), Rate of heart failure mortality among US adults (18+) etc. 
Data also covers different topics such as Major Cardiovascular Disease, Heart Failure, Stroke, Heart Disease, Coronary Heart Disease and Heart Attack. This dataset includes information from the year 2000 till 2015. That is fifteen years of comprehensive data which also gives information about Confidence limit which helps us to get biological statistic. The data is organized by location (national and state) and indicator; NVSS mortality data include CVDs (e.g., heart failure). The data can be viewed by temporal trends and stratified by age group, sex, and race/ethnicity.
There are three twitter hashtags which will contribute to the people’s opinion in the related topics. Twitter hashtags are as follows, Heart attack, cardiovascular disease and cardiac arrest. These three hashtags are being analyzed from 1st April 2014 till 22nd October 2017. Hashtags in IBM Watson analytics also gives valuable information regarding sentiments and hence it is highly required to use such a platform for data analysis. Heart disease is the leading cause of death for both men and women. By analyzing this dataset, we will get insights of Cardiovascular Diseases across United States of America. 
